# 3.2 Descriptive Analytics for Fraud Detection

## 3.2.1 Descriptive vs Predictive #Descriptive #Predictive

***<u>Descriptive Analytics</u>*** | ***<u>Predictive Analytics</u>*** 
:---------------- | ----------------:
<u>Aims at **finding anomalous behavior deviating from the norm**</u> |<u>Assumes the **availability of historical data with known frauds**</u>
● Behavior of the *average customer* across a time period. | ● The analytical models built *can only detect known fraud patterns*.
● The *average behavior* of a given customer across a time period. | ● Useful to *explain the anomalies* found by descriptive analytics.
**Can identify emerging unknown cyber threats.** | **Are based on known fraudulent patterns.**
***Unsupervised Learning*** | ***Supervised Learning***

## 3.2.2 Descriptive Analytics = Unsupervised learning = Anomaly Detection
It aims at **<u>finding anomalies, suspicious observations, outliers or exceptions</u>**.

> [!QUOTE]  Grubbs (1969)
> An **outlying observation**, or outlier, is one that appears to *deviate markedly from other members of the sample in which it occurs*.

Relevant in environments where:
- Organizations are *starting* doing fraud detection.
- There is *no labeled historical data* set available.
- *Fraudsters are* continuously *adapting* their strategies.

### 3.2.2.1 Unsupervised Learning Challenge
**Define the average behavior or norm**:
- *Depend* on the application field.
- *Boundary* between norm and outliers *is not clear-cut*.
	- Fraudsters try to blend into norm
- The *norm may change* over time
	- Analytical models built need to be continuously monitored and updated.
- *<u>Anomalies do not necessarily represent frauds</u>*.

> **Unsupervised learning for fraud detection** *require extensive validation* of the identified suspicious observations.

## 3.2.3 Graphical outlier detection procedures
<u>Ideal tools to explore the data</u> and get preliminary insights:
- **One-dimensional outliers** (*histogram or box plot*).
- **Two-(three) dimensional outliers** (*scatter plot*).

👎🏼 <u>Disadvantages</u>:
- *Less formal* and only limited to a few dimensions.
- *Require active involvement* of the end-user.
- For a <u>large dimensional data set, is cumbersome</u>.

---

Next chapter: [[3.03 - Statistical Outlier Detection | Statistical Outlier Detection]]



